The central district is an administrative-territorial unit (urban area) within the city of Gomel. It is located in the central, eastern and north-eastern parts of Gomel. The area is 2110 hectares, including about 300 hectares of green plantations. The population is about 80 thousand people (which is about 16% of the total population of the city). It was founded in 1940.

The modern appearance of the Central District began to form in the second half of the XVIII - early XX centuries. After the entry of Gomel into the Russian Empire (1772), his new Rumyantsev masters began to build a center like St. Petersburg (from the central square named after Lenin (formerly Zamkovaya), located behind the central park), the streets Sovetskaya (formerly Rumyantsevskaya), Lenin Prospect former Zamkovaya) and st. Proletarian (formerly Feldmarshalskaya). The main streets are Sovetskaya Street (central city street), Lenin Prospect, Victory (these three streets form a triangle with squares of Lenin, Privokzalnoy and Uprising in the corners), Mazurova, International, Krupskaya.

In the Central region there are 24 industrial enterprises, mainly machine tools, instrument making, motor transport, light and food industries. The largest of them are the Machine-Tool Plant named after. SM Kirov, confectionery factory Spartak, garment factories "8 March" and "Comintern", polygraphic enterprise "Polespechat", a bakery, a footwear factory "Trud", an auto repair plant, a plant of measuring instruments.

In the district there are 13 general education institutions, 11 secondary vocational schools and vocational schools, 2 universities (Gomel State University named after F. Skorina, Gomel State Medical University). Health facilities in the district include the Gomel City Emergency Hospital, the Regional Children's Clinical Hospital, the City Clinical Hospital No. 5, the maternity hospital, and 9 polyclinics (of which 3 are dental).

The main sports facilities - the football stadium "Central", the Ice Palace, the track and field athletics arena "Dynamo"

The area is home to most of the city's cultural attractions and attractions - Gomel Palace and Park Ensemble, Hunting Lodge, Drama Theater, Circus, Puppet Theater, Experimental Youth Theater Studio, Regional Social and Cultural Center, , city center of culture, art gallery of the Belarusian Union of Artists, Gomel regional center of folk art, Kalinina, the Eternal Fire, the mass graves of Soviet soldiers, the Central Library. Numerous parks and public gardens: Central Park, Park. A. Gromyko, Student Park, Dzerzhinsky Square and many others (30 squares and 3 parks). Monuments and busts were established for Lenin, A. Pushkin, N. Rumyantsev, A. Gromyko, I. Paskevich, P. Tchaikovsky, Kirill Turovsky, P. Sukhom, and others